# Community Code of Conduct

Video is dedicated to providing a harassment-free experience for everyone. We
do not tolerate harassment of participants in any form.

This code of conduct applies to all Video spaces, including our mailing lists
and issue trackers, both online and off. Anyone who violates this code of
conduct may be sanctioned or expelled from these spaces at the discretion of
the Video Anti-Abuse Team.

Some Video spaces may have additional rules in place, which will be made
clearly available to participants. Participants are responsible for knowing and
abiding by these rules.

Harassment includes:

* Offensive comments related to gender, gender identity and expression, sexual
  orientation, disability, mental illness, neuro(a)typicality, physical
  appearance, body size, age, race, or religion.

* Unwelcome comments regarding a person’s lifestyle choices and practices,
  including those related to food, health, parenting, drugs, and employment.

* Deliberate misgendering or use of ‘dead’ or rejected names.

* Gratuitous or off-topic sexual images or behaviour  in spaces where they’re
  not appropriate.

* Physical contact and simulated physical contact (eg, textual descriptions
  like “*hug*” or “*backrub*”) without consent or after a request to stop.

* Threats of violence.

* Incitement of violence towards any individual, including encouraging a person
  to commit suicide or to engage in self-harm.

* Deliberate intimidation.

* Stalking or following.

* Harassing photography or recording, including logging online activity for
  harassment purposes.

* Sustained disruption of discussion.

* Unwelcome sexual attention.

* Pattern of inappropriate social contact, such as requesting/assuming
  inappropriate levels of intimacy with others

* Continued one-on-one communication after requests to cease.

* Deliberate “outing” of any aspect of a person’s identity without their
  consent except as necessary to protect vulnerable people from intentional
  abuse.

* Publication of non-harassing private communication. 

Video prioritizes marginalized people’s safety over privileged people’s
comfort. The Video Anti-Abuse Team reserves the right not to act on complaints regarding:

* ‘Reverse’ -isms, including ‘reverse racism,’ ‘reverse sexism,’ and
‘cisphobia’

* Reasonable communication of boundaries, such as “leave me alone,” “go away,”
  or “I’m not discussing this with you.”

* Communicating in a ‘tone’ you don’t find congenial

* Criticizing racist, sexist, cissexist, or otherwise oppressive behavior or
  assumptions 

## Reporting

If you are being harassed by a member of Video, notice that someone else is
being harassed, or have any other concerns, please contact the Video Anti-Abuse
Team at leif -at- leifandersen.net. If the person who is harassing
you is on the team, they will recuse themselves from handling your incident. We
will respond as promptly as we can.

This code of conduct applies to Video spaces, but if you are being harassed by
a member of Video outside our spaces, we still want to know about it. We will
take all good-faith reports of harassment by Video members, especially the
Video administration, seriously. This includes harassment outside our spaces
and harassment that took place at any point in time. The abuse team reserves
the right to exclude people from Video based on their past behavior, including
behavior outside Video spaces and behavior towards people who are not in Video.

In order to protect volunteers from abuse and burnout, we reserve the right to
reject any report we believe to have been made in bad faith. Reports intended
to silence legitimate criticism may be deleted without response.

We will respect confidentiality requests for the purpose of protecting victims
of abuse. At our discretion, we may publicly name a person about whom we’ve
received harassment complaints, or privately warn third parties about them, if
we believe that doing so will increase the safety of Video members or the
general public. We will not name harassment victims without their affirmative
consent. 

## Consequences

Participants asked to stop any harassing behavior are expected to comply
immediately.

If a participant engages in harassing behavior, the Video Anti-Abuse Team may
take any action they deem appropriate, up to and including expulsion from all
Video spaces and identification of the participant as a harasser to other Video
members or the general public. 

## Attribution

This anti-harassment policy is based on the [example policy from the Geek Feminism wiki][1], created by the Geek Feminism community. 

[1]: http://geekfeminism.wikia.com/wiki/Community_anti-harassment
